---
layout: distill
title: Popular Computational Biology Language with R - [Proj:My Computer Workbench]
description: 
tags: R Rserver Docker Container
giscus_comments: true
date: 2024-09-26
related_posts: false
categories: ComputerWorkbench
featured: false

authors:
  - name: Krittiyabhorn (Namthip) Kongtanawanich
    url: "https://kuchikinamthip.github.io/"
    affiliations:
      name: Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol University, Thailand


bibliography: 2018-12-22-distill.bib

toc:
  - name: Introduction
  - name: R and R studio
  - name: Trick 
    subsections:
        - name: 1. R version
        - name: 2. Best practice for R

---

## Introduction
For this part of [My Computer Workbench](https://kuchikinamthip.github.io/projects/ComBio), I would like to explain the programming language I am using. Additionally, this section covers trick for R and how to use R with reproducibility in mind. 

## R and R studio
I mostly use [R and Rstudio](http://mercury.webster.edu/aleshunas/R_learning_infrastructure/Introduction_to_R_and_RStudio.html) mostly for my downstream analysis and visualization. However, I have encountered program dependency problems when running R on Linux. As a solution, I have started using dockerized RStudio to create an RStudio server. 

Here is the code for running dockerized RStudio.
Step 1 Create directory for the Dockerized R studio 
```{bash}
cd /home/namthip
mkdir R
cd R
mkdir host-site-library
```
Step 2 Give writable permission on `host-site-library`, to install custom R packages 
```{bash}
chmod a+w -R /home/namthip/R/host-site-library
```
Step 3 To initialize the Dockerized R Studio and open RStudio Server
```{bash} 
 sudo docker run \
    -v /home/namthip:/home/rstudio/namthip \
    -v /home/namthip/R/host-site-library:/usr/local/lib/R/host-site-library \
    -e R_LIBS_USER=/home/namthip/R/host-site-library \
    -e PASSWORD=<MY_PASSWORD> \
  	-p 8787:8787 \
  	bioconductor/bioconductor_docker:RELEASE_3_15
```
I pull a Docker image from  [bioconductor](https://hub.docker.com/r/bioconductor/bioconductor_docker) (as suggested by Tommy in his blog post). I think this Docker image is great. They explain clearly how to mount a volume (directory). I had tried other Docker images and found that some cannot mount the volume, while others cannot install new packages. This is my own RStudio server on my computer. 
<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ComSetting/Rstudio.jpeg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    R Studio server opened on my computer
</div>
Please note that the path that you use in the dockerized R is the path in the container, otherwise dockerized R can't find your destination. You can easily find the path by using Terminal in the dockerized R studio. Going to the directory you want, then use `pwd` command to find the path of that directory.

## Trick 
### 1. R version
One big problem I found with R version issues is the compatibility between the R version and package version. Sometimes we need a newer version, but sometimes the old one works fine. To switch between R versions, I use this trick.

Docker allows us to pull a specific version of a docker image, as shown in the picture (or [this link.](https://hub.docker.com/r/bioconductor/bioconductor/tags))
<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ComSetting/docker_Rversion.jpeg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Different version of R on Docker Hub
</div>

The version of R will be shown in the docker file for each version. From the picture below, "R version 4.4.1" is stated on line number 7.
<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ComSetting/dockerFile_Rversion.jpeg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Docker file of R version 4.4.1
</div>

From this point, I pull "R version 4.4.1" from docker, mount the same volume, and initialize a Dockerized R Studio and open RStudio Server using the command line below.
```{bash}
 sudo docker run \
    -v /home/namthip:/home/rstudio/namthip \
    -v /home/namthip/R/host-site-library:/usr/local/lib/R/host-site-library \
    -e R_LIBS_USER=/home/namthip/R/host-site-library \
    -e PASSWORD=<MY_PASSWORD> \
  	-p 8787:8787 \
  	bioconductor/bioconductor_docker:RELEASE_3_19-R-4.4.1
```
After launching the container, we need to access RStudio Server by opening an internet browser and typing `localhost:8787`. The login page for RStudio Server will appear. The username will always be `rstudio` and the password is the one you defined. 

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ComSetting/R_login.jpeg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Log in page of R server (R version 4.4.1)
</div>

### 2. Best practice for R
If you start using R, it is good to do so following this suggestion ["Best Practice for R"](https://github.com/wurli/r-best-practice). I started using R quite from scratch; I had to fix so many things afterward.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/BestPractice_R.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Cheast sheet: <a href="https://github.com/wurli/r-best-practice" target="_blank">Best Practice for R</a>
</div>

