---
layout: distill
title: Reproducible Computational Biology Workflow by nf-core - [Proj:My Computer Workbench]
description: 
tags: Unix Linux Docker Container nf-core Nextflow
giscus_comments: true
date: 2024-09-26
related_posts: false
categories: ComputerWorkbench
featured: false

authors:
  - name: Krittiyabhorn (Namthip) Kongtanawanich
    url: "https://kuchikinamthip.github.io/"
    affiliations:
      name: Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol University, Thailand


bibliography: 2018-12-22-distill.bib

toc:
  - name: Introduction
  - name: nf-core

---

## Introduction
For this part of [My Computer Workbench](https://kuchikinamthip.github.io/projects/ComBio), I would like to introduce about nf-core and their benefits in computational biology. 

## nf-core
I have also used conda, but setting dependencies can be quite complex, especially on HPC where you are not the administrator. Most of the time, I had to install programs and create the reference genome index I needed by myself. 

Bugs started occurring since then. For these reasons, I decided to use a docker container for heavy analysis, such as the genome alignment. One of the convenient ways to do this is by using nf-core. 

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ComSetting/nfcore.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    nf-core logo
</div>

The [nf-core](https://nf-co.re/) provides analysis pipelines for bioinformatics. It is a workflow run by [Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/) and includes the necessary programs. For example, [RNA-seq analysis](https://nf-co.re/rnaseq/3.12.0/), where I can select which program I will use for each process. Currently, I am running the upstream process with nf-core on an HPC. 

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ComSetting/nf_rna.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    nf-core: RNA sequencing analysis
</div>

To use nf-core pipelines, I installed it as recommended in the [Getting started](https://nf-co.re/docs/usage/getting_started/introduction/). Roughly, there are 3 main steps I did on the HPC, including nextflow installation, docker installation (you can choose others such as conda), and aliasing nf-core.

For the alias step, I used the following command. This tells the HPC that whenever I type `nf-core` means "docker run -itv `pwd`:`pwd` -w pwd nfcore/tools". Please note that there is a difference between `nfcore` and `nf-core` in the command.

```{bash}
alias nf-core="docker run -itv `pwd`:`pwd` -w `pwd` nfcore/tools"
```
To test if the `alias` works, use the following command. This command will list all nf-core pipelines.

```{bash}
nf-core list
```
