---
layout: distill
title: Tracking verions of code by Git Version Control - [Proj:My Computer Workbench]
description:
tags: R Rserver Docker Container
giscus_comments: true
date: 2024-09-26
related_posts: false
categories: ComputerWorkbench
featured: false

authors:
  - name: Krittiyabhorn (Namthip) Kongtanawanich
    url: "https://kuchikinamthip.github.io/"
    affiliations:
      name: Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol University, Thailand

bibliography: 2018-12-22-distill.bib

toc:
  - name: Introduction
  - name: Version control
  - name: Git version control
  - name: Note for Git
  - name: GitHub Repository
---

## Introduction

For this part of [My Computer Workbench](https://kuchikinamthip.github.io/projects/ComBio), I would like to introduce you to a version control system that helps manage different versions of code.

## Version control

Version control, also known as source control or revision control, is a system that records changes to a file or set of files, enabling users to recall specific versions later.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ComSetting/Git_concept.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    <a href="https://zhiminzhan.medium.com/10-minutes-guide-to-git-version-control-for-testers-f58e059bb5e7" target="_blank">Concept of version control and repository</a>
</div>

My software engineer friends cheer me on to use it instead of saving many versions of files, such as coding files from R.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ComSetting/Git_meme.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Git version control meme
</div>

## Git version control

I use Git as a version control tool. Git will create a directory called .git inside the folder of interest. This hidden folder will track the changes of all files inside the folder and sub-folder. Git will not interrupt your normal work; it just tracks quietly, and you just need to type a few commands to let Git record your coding version. Follow my steps to use Git.

1. Install Git according to [the recommendation](https://git-scm.com/downloads).
2. Go to the folder that you want to monitor the files via the command line.

```{bash}
cd <folder-of-interest>
```

3. Initialize Git

```{bash}
git init
```

Now that Git has started, you can see the `.git` folder inside the folder of interest by simply listing all files using the command `ls -al`. 4. Add all files inside this folder to the staging area.

```{bash}
git add .  #git add <path-to-directory-or-file>
```

You can add it many times. 5. Commit the change to git.

```{bash}
git commit -m "<you-message>"
```

For your routine work, just run git add and git commit (4 to 5).

## Note for Git

1. Check status of Git \
   Now the changes were sent to git. You can check the status of each step using the following command.

```{bash}
git status
```

2. Git ignore \
   If you don't want to track some files or folders, you can use git ignore by defining those in `.gitignore`.

```{bash}
# Create `.gitignore` file using nano
nano .gitignore
```

Add the file name and folder that you want to ignore to the `.gitignore`

```{bash}
# Here I use `cat .gitignore` to show what I wrote
host-site-library/    # ignore all files under host-site-library folder
.Rproj.user
.Rhistory
.RData
.Ruserdata    # ignore all files ending with `.Rproj.user`, `.Rhistory`, `.RData`, and `.Ruserdata`.
```

3. Git doesn't track my folders, even though I do all things correctly.
<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ComSetting/Git_problem1.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Git can't track the folders
</div>
I found the solution on [Stack Overflow.](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4161022/how-to-track-untracked-content?utm_medium=organic&utm_source=google_rich_qa&utm_campaign=google_rich_qa) The problem occurs because I have `.git` inside these two folders (I initized inside those folders). After removing the `.git` files inside those folders and re-running all the needed commands, it worked very well.

## GitHub Repository

I'm firstly confused between Git and GitHub. I would like to clarify this first. Git is the version control tool, while GitHub is a repository where we can store files using the benefits of Git commands and its version control. GitHub provides free but limited space for the repository. Therefore, I need to use `.gitignore` to help me manage what will not be sent to GitHub.
